L11
constraint										限制/kənˈstreɪnt/
Due to time constraint...						由於時間的關係...
consultation 									商議；諮詢
After consultation with her cowokers, she made a decision. 				在和同事商議之後，她做出決定
consumption 									消耗；消費
alcohol consumption 							飲酒量
The food was not fit for human consumption. 							這食物不適合人吃。
contagious 										傳染的
a contagious enthusiasm 						有感染力的熱情
contaminate 									汙染
The drinking water has become contaminated with lead. 					飲用水被鉛污染了。
contemplate 									凝視；考慮；沉思
contemplate one in silence 						默默凝視某人
The thought of war is too awful to contemplate. 						戰爭太可怕了，真不敢去想。
thought 										think 過去式、過去分詞
contemporary 									(形)當代的、(名)同時代的人
contemporary music 								當代音樂
contempt 										輕蔑
They had shown a contempt for the values she thought important. 		他們對她所認為重要的價值表示蔑視。
look at sb. with contempt 						輕蔑地看某人
contend 										爭奪；競爭
The firm is too small to contend against large international companies. 		這家公司太小，無法與國際性的大公司競爭。
continental 									大陸的；歐洲大陸的
Prices are often higher in Hawaii than in the continental United States. 		夏威夷的物價常常比美國本土高。
continental breakfast 							西式早餐
contractor 										立契約者；承包商/kənˈtræktər/
Contractors who fall behind schedule incur heavy financial penalties. 			承包商如延誤工期將被處以巨額罰款。
fall behind 									落後；下降
haulage contractor 								貨運承包商
haulage 										運輸/ˈhɔːlɪdʒ/
contradict 										反駁/ˌkɑːntrəˈdɪkt/
contradict oneself								自我矛盾
controversial 									爭論的/ˌkɑːntrəˈvɜːrʃl/
a controversial decision 						有爭議的決策
controversy 									爭論；爭議/ˈkɑːntrəvɜːrsi/
The issue engendered controversy. 				這個問題引起了爭論。
engender 										產生；引起
conversion										轉換
convert 										轉換
convict 										(動)證明...有罪、(名)囚犯
He was convicted of illegally importing weapons across state lines. 			他被判犯有非法越境偷運武器罪。
importing 										import 	進口；導入
weapons 										武器/ˈwɛpənz/
state lines 									國際線
conviction 										定罪
The conviction of their son's murderer helped to give them a sense of closure.				謀殺兒子的兇手被判罪，讓他們得到了一些安慰。
sense of closure 								解脫感
closure 										停業；倒閉
coordinate 										(動)協調；(名)同等的人、(形)同等的
They appointed a new manager to coordinate the work of the team. 							為協調這個團隊的工作，他們任用了一位新經理。
appointed 										任命；安排





L12
copyright 										(名)版權、(動)取得版權
core 											核心
corporate 										法人的；公司的
corporate management 							公司管理
corporation 									公司
correlation 									相關性
There is a direct correlation between exposure to sun and skin cancer. 					皮膚暴露在太陽下與皮膚癌有直接關係。
exposure 										暴露
