L8
collaboration 					協同合作
They should work in close collaboration. 			他們應該密切合作
collective 						(形)共同的、(名)集體企業
"Team" is a collective noun. 			「團隊」是集合名詞
collector 						收集者
debt colletor 					收帳者；討債者
debt 							/det/債務；欠款
colonial 						/kəˈloʊniəl/(形)殖民地的、(名)殖民地區民
from colonial rule 				在殖民統治下
columnist	 					/ˈkɑːləmnɪst/專欄作家
Amy was a columnist when she was in New York. 				當艾咪在紐約時，是專欄作家
combat 							(名)戰鬥；搏鬥、(動)防止；減輕
single combat 					一對一戰鬥
The government is introducing tougher measures to combat crime. 			政府正在推行更強硬的手段來反擊犯罪。
tougher							/ˈtʌfər/強硬的(地)、頑強的(地)
measure 						測量；手段
comedian 						/kəˈmiːdiən/喜劇演員
He is a famous comedian 		他是有名的喜劇演員
commentary 						評論
running commentary 				實況報導
commentator 					時事評論家
Who is the most popular commentator in Taiwan? 			台灣最著名的時事評論家是誰？
commission 						/kəˈmɪʃn/委託；委員會
a commission to 				關於...的委託
The findings of the commission will be published today. 			委員會的調查結果將於今天公佈。
finding 						判決結果；調查發現
commitment 						承諾
make a commitment 				做出承諾
criminal 						罪犯
commodity 						/kəˈmɑːdəti/日用品
Rice is a basic commodity 		米是基本日用品
communism 						共產主義
They don't understand what communism is. 			他們不知道何謂共產黨
communist 						(形)共產主義的、(名)共產黨員
He didn't know any communists. 			他不認識任何共產黨員
commute 						通勤
He commutes from Tainan to Kaohsiung. 			他通勤於台南到高雄
commuter 						通勤者
Fire broke out at three railway stations, halting service on two commuter lines for several hours. 				三個火車站發生了火災，兩條通勤線路的服務被迫中斷數小時。
compact 						(形)緊密的；體積小的、(名)小型轎車、(動)使緊密
The bedroom is compact. 		這房間很小
comparable 						可比較的
A is not comparable to B 		A 和 B 不能直接相比
The situation in the US is not directly comparable to that in the UK.			美國的情況與英國的不能直接相比。





L9
compassion 								/kəmˈpæʃn/憐憫；同情心
patience 								/ˈpeɪʃns/耐心
Elderly people need time and compassion from their physicians. 			老人需要醫生多花時間，還需要他們的關愛。
physician 								/fəˈzɪʃənz/醫生；內科醫生
compassionate 							同情的
compassionate leave 					事假
He was allowed to go home on compassionate grounds. 			他因為得到同情而獲準回家。
compassionate grounds 					值得同情的原因
compatible 								能共處的；能兼容的
be compatible with 						能和...相容
Marriage and the life I live just don't seem compatible. 			婚姻和我的生活好像就是無法兼容。
compel 									迫使
feel compel 							覺得被強迫
Last year ill health compelled his retirement. 						去年他因身體不好被迫退休了。
compensate 								補償；賠償
compensate for 							補償...
He did not have the means to compensate her. 						他沒有錢來補償她。
means									方法；方式；財富
compensation 							補償
receive compensation 					得到補償金
competence 								/ˈkɑːmpɪtəns/(名)能力
professional competence 				專業能力
competent 								(形)有能力的
The secretary is competent in her work 				秘書對工作能夠勝任
complexity 								複雜
increasing complexity 					日益複雜
compliance 								遵循
They need a compliance plan to help them follow the law. 			他們需要遵循計畫幫助他們守法
complication 							複雜
add some complication 					增加複雜度
compliment 								/ˈkɑːmplɪmənt/恭維
pay one a compliment 					對某人恭維
She complimented him on his excellent German. 			她誇獎他德語棒極了
comply 									/kəmˈplaɪ/遵守
We should comply with the requirements. 				我們應該遵守規定
component 								(名)成分、(形)組成的
Love is an important component in any relationship. 		在任何關係中，愛都是重要的成分
compound 								(名)合成物、(動)組合、(形)合成的
a compound of A and B 					A 和 B 的合成物
comprehend 								理解
He cannot comprehend why he can be so lazy. 				他無法理解為何他這麼懶
comprehension 							理解力
reading comprehension 					閱讀理解
comprise 								由...構成
be comprise of 							由...構成





L10
compromise 								妥協
reach a compromise 						達成妥協
In any relationship, you have to make compremises. 					在任何關係當中，人們都得作出讓步。
compulsory 								/kəmˈpʌlsəri/義務的
Compulsory education begins at the age of six in Taiwan. 			台灣的義務教育從六歲開始
conceal 								/kənˈsiːl/隱藏
conceal sth. from sb. 					對某人隱瞞事情
For a long time his dealth was conceled from her. 					他的死瞞了很久都沒告訴她。
concede 								/kənˈsiːd/承認
"You are the best," he conceded 		你是最好的。他承認
conceive 								構想
conceive of 							構想
God is often conceiced of as male. 		上帝常常被想像為男性。
conception 								概念
have/has no conception of 				對...沒概念
He has no conception of how difficult life is if you're umemployed. 			他不知道如果你失業了，生活會有多困難。
condemn 								/kənˈdem/譴責
condemn as 								被譴責為...
The policy has been condemned as a regressive step.				這項政策被譴責為倒退措施。
regressive 								回歸；倒退的；退化的
conduct 								(動)指導；引導、(名)行為
The teacher conducted them around the museum. 			老師引導他們遊覽博物館
confession 								承認
make a confession 						招認
His confession involved a number of other politicians in the affair. 			他的自白供出其他一些政治人物也涉及此事。
the affair 								這件事；風流韻事；緋聞
confidential 							祕密的 
confidential documents 					秘密文件
My letter is, of coursem strictly private and confidential. 			當然，我的信純屬私人信件，務須保密。
confine 								/kənˈfaɪn/限制
The concert won't be confined to Taiwan. 						這演唱會將不會侷限在台灣
conform 								/kənˈfɔːrm/遵守
conform to 								符合
There is a great deal of pressure on young people to conform. 				年輕人承受著巨大的壓力，要求他們順從。
great deal 								很大程度
confront 								/kənˈfrʌnt/遭遇
We are learning how to confront death instead of avoiding its reality.				 我們在學習如何面對死亡，而非迴避死亡這個現實。
be confront with 						面對
confrontation 							對抗
be confrontation with 					面對...
She wanted to avoid another confrontation with her father. 				她想避免和父親再次發生衝突。
consecutive 							/kənˈsekjətɪv/連續的
She was absent for nine consecutive days. 								她一連缺席了九天。
consensus 								/kənˈsensəs/共識
There is a growing consensus of opinion on this issue. 					對這個問題的看法日趨一致。
consent 								/kənˈsent/同意
age of consent 							法定年齡
At no time did I give my consent to the plan. 							我從未同意過這項計劃。
conservation 							保存
energy conservation 					能源節約
considerate 							體貼的
He is a considerate husband. 			他是體貼的丈夫
constitutional 							/ˌkɑːnstɪˈtuːʃənl/(形)憲法的、(名)保健散步
constitution 							憲法 
constitutional reform 					憲法修改
reform 									/rɪˈfɔːrm/改革；改進
